# School_District_Analysis

## Overview of the Analysis
The reason that we performed the analysis on the school district for this challenege was because it was found out that there might have been academic dishonesty at Thomas High School for the ninth grade reading and math scores. We originally performed the school district analyis to see which schools were performing the best, how the types of schools compared to one another, how the size of schools effected performance, and many other metrics. For this challenge we performed the analysis on the same metrics, but we took out the math and reading scores for the ninth graders at Thomas high. This was to make sure our results and analyis would not be tainted by academic dishonesty. 

## Analysis: 
### District Summary Effects
- By taking out the ninth grade Thomas High reading and math scores the District did see a decrease in % passing math, % passing reading, and % overall passing. Although there was a decrease it was very minor. For example the % overall passing dropped from 65.17% to 64.9%. To see all of the original District dataframe metrics please look [here](https://github.com/jmerenstein/School_District_Analysis/blob/main/Resources/Original%20District%20Summary%20Dataframe.png). To see the updated  District dataframe metrics please look [here](https://github.com/jmerenstein/School_District_Analysis/blob/main/Resources/New%20District%20Summary%20DataFrame.png).

### School Summary and Thomas High Effects
- The school summary dataframe and Thomas High's results were both minorly affected by taking out the ninth grade test scores. Overall Thomas High school was trhe second highest performing school in terms of % overall passing and still remained second highest overall once the ninth grade scores were taken out. The % overall passing for Thomas did decrease from 90.94% to 90.63%, but this change is very minor. Overall taking out the ninth grade scores for Thomas High had very little effect on the summary dataframe overall and how Thomas High performed overall. Click [here](https://github.com/jmerenstein/School_District_Analysis/blob/main/Resources/Original%20School%20Summary.png) to see the original top performing school and click [here](https://github.com/jmerenstein/School_District_Analysis/blob/main/Resources/New%20School%20Summary.png) to see the new top performing schools. 

### Effects on other metrics
- Effects on Math and Reading Scores by grade: The main effect that taking out the scores for ninth graders were that Thomas High no longer had any values for ninth grade reading and math scores. This meant that the both the math and reading scores for ninth graders overall went down because Thomas High s=ninth graders scored relativeley high for these scores which would have helped the overall ninth grade percentage. 

- Effects on scores by school spending: Unfortunately I could not get the code to work for the school spending portion. When I ran it for some reason the bins show up in the school summary dataframe as NaN. I reached out to a learning assistant about the issue, but we were not able to come to a solution. I have attached a screenshot of the isssue [here](https://github.com/jmerenstein/School_District_Analysis/blob/main/Resources/School%20Spending%20Issue.png).

- Effects on scores by school size: The effects on score size by school were also very minor. To do this analysis we broke the sizes of schools into three diffferent categories: small, medium, and large. Thomas High was a medium sized school before we took out the ninth graders and after. So it didn't change any of the categories by jumping into a different one. The only effect it had was very slightly decreasing the scores for the medium sized schools because as stated earlier the taking out of the ninth grade scores caused the percentgaes to decrease very slightly.

- Effects on school type: The effect on school type was also very minor. Since the ninth graders were not that large of a portion in any of these datasets it did not have a major effect on the ending results. The same thing happened here where the results by school type were hardly affected as well. 

## Summary
- The main things that changed were the effects on math and reading scores by grade. Taking out the ninth grade scores had the biggest affect on this portion because it was directly comparing ninth graders in one school to other schools. The next biggest effects were on % overall passing, % passing math, and % passing reading. Although the taking out the ninth graders did have some effects on the overall district and summary dataframes, I believe those effects were very minor. This is because there were only 461 ninth graders from Thomas High out of a total of 39,170 students in the district. This is just over 1% of the student population in the district and why I see that these effects were very minor on the changes in the data. 

